Intro to Substrate MOOC - Module 1 (#95)
w3f/w3f-education: docs/Substrate/section1/substrate-history.md

title: History Behind Substrate
sidebar_label: History Behind Substrate
description: Learn the history of how Substrate came about and its relevance to Polkadot.
---

> Substrate, at its origins, was created very near the conception of the Polkadot network.  The two are usually inseparable - where there is Substrate, there is Polkadot.  Parachains that connect to Polkadot are also built using Substrate, generally using some abstractions such as FRAME and Cumulus.

Reviewer: There are Substrate solo chains that are successfully deployed with no connection to Polkadot. Updating it to reflect that Substrate development is sort of tightly coupled with Polkadot's.

```suggestion
Substrate, at its origins, was created very close to the conception of the Polkadot network.  The two are usually tightly coupled - where the improvements to Substrate funnel into Polkadot and vice versa.  Parachains that connect to Polkadot are also built using Substrate, generally using some abstractions such as FRAME and Cumulus.
```
